TELCODOCS-1707: Add performing upgrade non-GitOps (#77477)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cnf-image-based-upgrade-troubleshooting.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * edge_computing/image-based-upgrade/cnf-image-based-upgrade-base.adoc
// * edge_computing/image-based-upgrade/ztp-image-based-upgrade.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ztp-image-based-upgrade-troubleshooting_{context}"]
= Troubleshooting image-based upgrades with {lcao}

You can encounter issues during the image-based upgrade.

[id="ztp-image-based-upgrade-troubleshooting-must-gather_{context}"]
== Collecting logs

You can use the `oc adm must-gather` CLI to collect information for debugging and troubleshooting.

.Procedure

> . Collect data about the Operators by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Collect data about the Operators by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$  oc adm must-gather \
--dest-dir=must-gather/tmp \
--image=$(oc -n openshift-lifecycle-agent get deployment.apps/lifecycle-agent-controller-manager -o jsonpath='{.spec.template.spec.containers[?(@.name == "manager")].image}') \
--image=quay.io/konveyor/oadp-must-gather:latest \ <1>
--image=quay.io/openshift/origin-must-gather:latest <1>
----

> <1> (Optional) You can add these options if you need to gather more information from the OADP and the SR-IOV Operators.

Reviewer: This needs to break into 2 items since there should be two callouts

[id="ztp-image-based-upgrade-troubleshooting-manual-cleanup_{context}"]
== AbortFailed or FinalizeFailed error

> Issue::

Reviewer: This looks so nice in the output :nerd_face:

> During the finalize stage or when you stop the process at the `Prep` stage, normally, {lcao} cleans up the following resources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the finalize stage or when you stop the process at the `Prep` stage, {lcao} cleans up the following resources:
```

* Stateroot that is no longer required
* Precaching resources
* OADP CRs
* `ImageBasedUpgrade` CR

If the {lcao} fails to perform the above steps, it transitions to the `AbortFailed` or `FinalizeFailed` states.
The condition message and log show which steps failed.

.Example error message
[source,yaml]
----
message: failed to delete all the backup CRs. Perform cleanup manually then add 'lca.openshift.io/manual-cleanup-done' annotation to ibu CR to transition back to Idle
      observedGeneration: 5
      reason: AbortFailed
      status: "False"
      type: Idle

> ----

Reviewer: Is this meant to be indented with the other text? You can probably accomplish that with an open block :thinking:

Resolution::

. Inspect the logs to determine why the failure occurred.

. To prompt {lcao} to retry the cleanup, add the `lca.openshift.io/manual-cleanup-done` annotation to the `ImageBasedUpgrade` CR.

> After observing this annotation, {lcao} retries the cleanup and if it is successful, the `ImageBasedUpgrade` stage transitions to `Idle`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After observing this annotation, {lcao} retries the cleanup and, if it is successful, the `ImageBasedUpgrade` stage transitions to `Idle`.
```

> If the cleanup fails again, you can manually clean up the resources.

Reviewer: Same Q about indents here

[id="ztp-image-based-upgrade-troubleshooting-stateroot_{context}"]
=== Cleaning up stateroot manually

Issue::

> Stopping at the `Prep` stage, {lcao} cleans up the new stateroot, and finalizing after a successful upgrade or a rollback, normally, {lcao} cleans up the old stateroot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stopping at the `Prep` stage, {lcao} cleans up the new stateroot.
When finalizing after a successful upgrade or a rollback, {lcao} cleans up the old stateroot.
```

If this step fails, it is recommended that you inspect the logs to determine why the failure occurred. 

Resolution::

. Check if there are any existing deployments in the stateroot by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ostree admin status
----

> . If there are any, clean up the existing deployment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If there are any, clean up the existing deployment by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ostree admin undeploy <index_of_deployment> 
----

. After cleaning up all the deployments of the stateroot, wipe the stateroot directory:
+
--
[WARNING]
====
Ensure that the booted deployment is not in this stateroot.
====

[source,terminal]
----
$ stateroot="<stateroot_to_delete>"

> $ unshare -m /bin/sh -c "mount -o remount,rw /sysroot && rm -rf /sysroot/ostree/deploy/${stateroot}"

Reviewer: This is two commands, we can only do one per block. Need to find a way to introduce each part briefly.

----

> --

Reviewer: Something is not playing nice here. Possibly could be resolved by an open block, but I haven't run into this specific render issue before so am not certain.
![image](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/assets/61474374/468e805d-604a-427b-b368-31053cd18d3f)

Reviewer 2: I put all three steps in an open block, looks good in my local preview :crossed_fingers:

[id="ztp-image-based-upgrade-troubleshooting-oadp-resources_{context}"]
=== Cleaning up OADP resources manually

Issue::

> This step can fail due to connection issues between {lcao} and the S3 backend. By restoring the connection and adding the `lca.openshift.io/manual-cleanup-done` annotation, the {lcao} can successfully cleanup backup resources.

Reviewer: "This step" = automatic cleanup of OADP resources?
```suggestion
Automatic cleanup of OADP resources can fail due to connection issues between {lcao} and the S3 backend. By restoring the connection and adding the `lca.openshift.io/manual-cleanup-done` annotation, the {lcao} can successfully cleanup backup resources.
```

Resolution::

. Check the backend connectivity by running the following command:
+
--
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get backupstoragelocations.velero.io -n openshift-adp
----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                          PHASE       LAST VALIDATED   AGE   DEFAULT
dataprotectionapplication-1   Available   33s              8d    true
----
--

> . Remove all backup resources and then add the `lca.openshift.io/manual-cleanup-done` annotation to the `ImageBasedUpgrade` CR.

Reviewer: Rendering off in the same way as above
![image](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/assets/61474374/c567610d-8edb-4217-91ed-63a839bedf1c)

Reviewer 2: Similar resolution to above but of course, not the same...

[id="ztp-image-based-upgrade-troubleshooting-lvms_{context}"]
== {lvms} volume contents not restored

When {lvms} is used to provide dynamic persistent volume storage, {lvms} might not restore the persistent volume contents if it is configured incorrectly.

[id="ztp-image-based-upgrade-troubleshooting-lvms-backup_{context}"]
=== Missing {lvms}-related fields in Backup CR

Issue::
Your `Backup` CRs might be missing fields that are needed to restore your persistent volumes.

> You have the following output when you check for events in your application pod:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check for events in your application pod to determine if you have this issue by running the following:
```

  Warning  FailedScheduling  58s (x2 over 66s)  default-scheduler  0/1 nodes are available: pod has unbound immediate PersistentVolumeClaims. preemption: 0/1 nodes are available: 1 Preemption is not helpful for scheduling..
  Normal   Scheduled         56s                default-scheduler  Successfully assigned default/db-1234 to sno1.example.lab
  Warning  FailedMount       24s (x7 over 55s)  kubelet            MountVolume.SetUp failed for volume "pvc-1234" : rpc error: code = Unknown desc = VolumeID is not found
----
--

Resolution::
You must include `logicalvolumes.topolvm.io` in the application `Backup` CR.
Without this resource, the application restores its persistent volume claims and persistent volume manifests correctly, however, the `logicalvolume` associated with this persistent volume is not restored properly after pivot.
+
.Example Backup CR
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: velero.io/v1
kind: Backup
metadata:
  labels:
    velero.io/storage-location: default
  name: small-app
  namespace: openshift-adp
spec:
  includedNamespaces:
  - test
  includedNamespaceScopedResources:
  - secrets
  - persistentvolumeclaims
  - deployments
  - statefulsets

>   includedClusterScopedResources:
>   - persistentVolumes <1>
>   - volumesnapshotcontents <1>
>   - logicalvolumes.topolvm.io <1>

Reviewer: To get around the limitation of callout reuse
```suggestion
  includedClusterScopedResources: <1>
  - persistentVolumes
  - volumesnapshotcontents
  - logicalvolumes.topolvm.io
```

----

> <1> Required to restore the persistent volumes for your application. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> To restore the persistent volumes for your application, you must configure this section as shown.
```

[id="ztp-image-based-upgrade-troubleshooting-lvms-restore_{context}"]
=== Missing {lvms}-related fields in Restore CR

Issue::
The expected resources for the applications are restored but the persistent volume contents are not preserved after upgrading.
+
--
.Example output before pivot
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get pv,pvc,logicalvolumes.topolvm.io -A

Reviewer: I believe `pv` and `pvc` should be their written out forms here

persistentvolume/pvc-1234   1Gi        RWO            Retain           Bound    default/pvc-db   lvms-vg1                4h45m

NAMESPACE   NAME                           STATUS   VOLUME     CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   STORAGECLASS   AGE
default     persistentvolumeclaim/pvc-db   Bound    pvc-1234   1Gi        RWO            lvms-vg1       4h45m

NAMESPACE   NAME                                AGE
            logicalvolume.topolvm.io/pvc-1234   4h45m
----

.Example output after pivot
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pv,pvc,logicalvolumes.topolvm.io -A
----

[source,terminal]
----
NAME                        CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   RECLAIM POLICY   STATUS   CLAIM            STORAGECLASS   REASON   AGE
persistentvolume/pvc-1234   1Gi        RWO            Delete           Bound    default/pvc-db   lvms-vg1                19s

NAMESPACE   NAME                           STATUS   VOLUME     CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   STORAGECLASS   AGE
default     persistentvolumeclaim/pvc-db   Bound    pvc-1234   1Gi        RWO            lvms-vg1       19s

NAMESPACE   NAME                                AGE
            logicalvolume.topolvm.io/pvc-1234   18s

> ----

Reviewer: Would be good to break the command out so that what the command does is described and so that the headings ("example output") are right above outputs instead of commands.

--

Resolution::
The reason for this issue is that the `logicalvolume` status is not preserved in the `Restore` CR.
This status is important because it is required for Velero to reference the volumes that must be preserved after pivoting.
You must include the following fields in the application `Restore` CR:
+
.Example Restore CR
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: velero.io/v1
kind: Restore
metadata:
  name: sample-vote-app
  namespace: openshift-adp
  labels:
    velero.io/storage-location: default
  annotations:
    lca.openshift.io/apply-wave: "3"
spec:
  backupName:
    sample-vote-app

>   restorePVs: true <1>
>   restoreStatus: <1>
>     includedResources: <1>
>       - logicalvolumes <1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  restorePVs: true <1>
  restoreStatus: <2>
    includedResources:
      - logicalvolumes
```

----
<1> Required to preserve the persistent volumes for your application.

[id="ztp-image-based-upgrade-troubleshooting-debugging-oadp-crs_{context}"]
== Debugging failed Backup and Restore CRs

Issue::

> The backup or restore of artifacts failed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The backup or restoration of artifacts failed.
```
